Improve GraphQL client tool guide (#4434)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: learn/guides/graphql-client-tool.md

  - /learn/graphql-client-tool
--- 

> The GraphQL schema is necessary to validate the GraphQL queries. Each GraphQL query will be validated against the given GraphQL schema before generating a Ballerina client remote operation and the corresponding Ballerina record types. You can use the generated Ballerina client to execute queries/mutations on the relevant GraphQL API through the generated remote operations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GraphQL schema is necessary to validate the GraphQL queries. Each GraphQL query will be validated against the given GraphQL schema before generating a Ballerina client remote operation and the corresponding Ballerina record types. Use the generated Ballerina client to execute queries/mutations on the relevant GraphQL API through the generated remote operations. 
```
Use direct voice when giving instructions AMAP.

> For advanced use cases, you can generate multiple clients using multiple GraphQL documents or generate multiple Ballerina modules per GraphQL API endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, you can generate multiple clients using multiple GraphQL documents or generate multiple Ballerina modules per GraphQL API endpoint. For information, see [Advanced use cases]().
```
Shall we link to the advanced use cases section from here?

## Generate a client from a GraphQL config

> **Prerequisites:** Install the [GraphQL Foundation VSCode plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GraphQL.vscode-graphql) and the latest [Ballerina Swan Lake distribution](https://ballerina.io/downloads/).

> The steps below demonstrates how to generate a Ballerina client from a GraphQL config file using the `graphql` CLI tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps below to generate a Ballerina client from a GraphQL config file using the `graphql` CLI tool.
```

### Create a Ballerina package

> Create a Ballerina package using the `bal new` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the instructions below to create a Ballerina package using the `bal new` command.
```
We can remove the sub-sections and have numbered steps if that is more user-friendly.

Author: The following instructions won't create the Ballerina package. They customize the package generated using the `bal new` command. Therefore, the above change will not be done.

### Add the GraphQL document

Create a directory called `queries` in the Ballerina package root directory. Add a GraphQL document file (`query-country.graphql`) to this directory.

### Create a GraphQL config

Create a GraphQL config file (`graphql.config.yaml`) in the Ballerina package root directory with the configurations below.

```yml
## The GraphQL schema. E.g., https://countries.trevorblades.com or ./schemas/country.graphql
schema: https://countries.trevorblades.com
## The GraphQL documents that have queries/mutations
documents:
   - ./queries/query-country.graphql
```

> In general.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general.
```
Need to add a complete sentence here.

```yml
schema: <File path to the GraphQL schema or the web URL of the GraphQL schema>
documents:
   - <File path to the GraphQL document with the GraphQL queries & mutations>
```

> The [GraphQL Foundation VSCode plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GraphQL.vscode-graphql) requires a GraphQL config file at the root level or in a parent level directory. The Ballerina GraphQL client tool supports only the standard `graphql.config.yaml` format as input. For more information, see the [GraphQL config](https://www.graphql-config.com/docs/user/user-usage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [GraphQL Foundation VSCode plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GraphQL.vscode-graphql) requires a GraphQL config file at the root level or in a parent-level directory. The Ballerina GraphQL client tool supports only the standard `graphql.config.yaml` format as input. For more information, see the [GraphQL config](https://www.graphql-config.com/docs/user/user-usage).
```

>**Note:** If the GraphQL API is secured, add the extensions section in the GraphQL config file with the relevant tokens and headers. In this scenario, it is mandatory to configure the schema section with the web URL of the GraphQL schema as shown below.

```yml
schema: <The web URL of the GraphQL schema.>
documents:
   - <File path to the GraphQL document with the GraphQL queries & mutations>
extensions:
   endpoints:
      default:
         headers: { "Authorization": "Bearer token", "API_Header_Key1": "API_Header_Value1", "API_Header_Key2": "API_Header_Value2" }

```

### Add the GraphQL queries

Add the GraphQL queries to the GraphQL document file (i.e., `query-country.graphql`). 

For example, the `query-country.graphql` file will have the content below.

```graphql
## Add the queries and mutations here.

query countryByCode($code: ID!) {
    country(code: $code) {
        name
    }
}
```

You can validate and execute the GraphQL queries using the [GraphQL Foundation VSCode plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GraphQL.vscode-graphql).

> >**Note:** You are required to give a query name for each query. This name would be used as the corresponding remote operation name in the generated client.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Note:** You are required to give a query name for each query. This name is used as the corresponding remote operation name in the generated client.  
```

### Execute the `graphql` CLI command

> If you want to generate the Ballerina client for a given GraphQL document you can use the command below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to generate the Ballerina client for a given GraphQL document, use the command below. 
```

```bash
bal graphql -i graphql.config.yaml
```

> This will generate the Ballerina sources (i.e., the three Ballerina files below) from the given GraphQL config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This generates the Ballerina sources (i.e., the three Ballerina files below) from the given GraphQL config.
```

1. `query_country_client.bal` - contains the Ballerina client with remote operations corresponding to each GraphQL query/mutation in the GraphQL document
2. `utils.bal` - contains all the utility methods related to the client stub
3. `types.bal`- contains all the Ballerina data types extracted from the GraphQL schema (SDL)

> For the example above, it would generate the client file below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example above will generate the client file below.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/http;
import ballerina/graphql;

public isolated client class QuerycountryClient {
    final graphql:Client graphqlClient;
    public isolated function init(string serviceUrl, http:ClientConfiguration clientConfig = {}) returns graphql:ClientError? {
        graphql:Client clientEp = check new (serviceUrl, clientConfig);
        self.graphqlClient = clientEp;
        return;
    }
    remote isolated function countryByCode(string code) returns CountryByCodeResponse|graphql:ClientError {
        string query = string `query countryByCode($code:ID!) {country(code:$code) {name}}`;
        map<anydata> variables = {"code": code};
        json graphqlResponse = check self.graphqlClient->executeWithType(query, variables);
        return <CountryByCodeResponse> check performDataBinding(graphqlResponse, CountryByCodeResponse);
    }
}
```

> In general,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general,
```
Need to add a complete sentence here.

```bash
bal graphql [-i | --input] <graphql-configuration-file-path> [-o | --output] <output-location> 
```

> This will generate a Ballerina client with remote operations corresponding to each GraphQL query/mutation in the GraphQL document (`.graphql document`). The generated sources will be written into the same directory from which the command is executed (i.e., the Ballerina package root directory). For more information, see [GraphQL to Ballerina](/learn/cli-documentation/graphql/#graphql-to-ballerina). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This generates a Ballerina client with remote operations corresponding to each GraphQL query/mutation in the GraphQL document (`.graphql document`). The generated sources gets written into the same directory from which the command is executed (i.e., the Ballerina package root directory). For more information, see [GraphQL to Ballerina](/learn/cli-documentation/graphql/#graphql-to-ballerina). 
```

The above command can be run from anywhere on the execution path. It is not mandatory to run it from within a Ballerina project.

### Sample usage of the generated client

> The generated client can be used to execute the queries/mutations on the GraphQL API. The example below shows the usage of the generated client in a Ballerina program. Make sure you have copied the generated files into the root of the Ballerina package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated client can be used to execute the queries/mutations on the GraphQL API. The example below shows the usage of the generated client in a Ballerina program. 

1. Copy the generated files into the root of the Ballerina package.
```
Seems like we need numbered steps for this sequence of instructions. This can be step 1.

> The generated client can be used to execute the queries/mutations on the GraphQL API. The example below shows the usage of the generated client in a Ballerina program. Make sure you have copied the generated files into the root of the Ballerina package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use the generated client to execute the queries/mutations on the GraphQL API. The example below shows the usage of the generated client in a Ballerina program. Make sure you have copied the generated files into the root of the Ballerina package.
```

> Add a Ballerina file called `main.bal` with the content below into the root of the Ballerina package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add a Ballerina file called `main.bal` with the content below into the root of the Ballerina package.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() returns error? {
    QuerycountryClient countryClient = check new ("https://countries.trevorblades.com/");
    CountryByCodeResponse response = check countryClient->countryByCode("LK");
    io:println(response.country?.name);
}
```

Build and run the Ballerina package by using the `bal run` command.

You can also use the `graphql` CLI tool to generate a Ballerina module. For more information, see [Generate multiple modules from a GraphQL config](/learn/graphql-client-tool/#generate-multiple-modules-from-a-graphql-config).

## Advanced use cases

### Generate multiple clients from a GraphQL config

> The steps below demonstrates how to generate multiple Ballerina clients from a GraphQL config file configured with a GraphQL schema (SDL) and multiple GraphQL documents using the `graphql` CLI tool. Each document will generate a separate Ballerina client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps below to generate multiple Ballerina clients from a GraphQL config file configured with a GraphQL schema (SDL) and multiple GraphQL documents using the `graphql` CLI tool. Each document will generate a separate Ballerina client.
```

> Create a Ballerina package. For more information, see [Package commands](/learn/cli-documentation/cli-commands/#package-commands).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create a Ballerina package. For more information, see [Package commands](/learn/cli-documentation/cli-commands/#package-commands).
```

> Create a GraphQL config file (`graphql.config.yaml`) in the Ballerina package root directory with the configurations below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create a GraphQL config file (`graphql.config.yaml`) in the Ballerina package root directory with the configurations below.
```

  - /learn/graphql-client-tool
--- 

> The GraphQL schema is necessary to validate the GraphQL queries. Each GraphQL query will be validated against the given GraphQL schema before generating a Ballerina client remote operation and the corresponding Ballerina record types. Use the generated Ballerina client to execute queries/mutations on the relevant GraphQL API through the generated remote operations.

Reviewer 2: This sentence is not clear.

Reviewer: When generating the client, this tool validates the given GraphQL queries against the given GraphQL schema. A Ballerina client remote operation and the corresponding Ballerina record types will be generated for each given GraphQL query. The generated Ballerina client can be used to execute queries (i.e., that belong to one of the operation types, `query` or `mutation`) on the relevant GraphQL API through the generated remote operations.

Reviewer: @dakshitha - Can you check this?

Reviewer 2: A Ballerina client remote operation - why do we have to say Ballerina client remote operation? Can't it be a remote operation? I don't get the client remote operation part. Or the client's remote operation? Or the remote operation of the client?

Author: Updated. Thank you.

  - /learn/graphql-client-tool
--- 

> The GraphQL schema is necessary to validate the GraphQL queries. Each GraphQL query will be validated against the given GraphQL schema to generate a Ballerina client remote operation and the corresponding Ballerina record types. You can use the generated Ballerina client to execute queries/mutations on the relevant GraphQL API through the generated remote operations. Based on your necessity, you can generate multiple clients in Ballerina using the given multiple GraphQL documents and GraphQL queries/mutations. You can also generate multiple Ballerina modules for multiple GraphQL projects to work with different GraphQL APIs. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The GraphQL schema is necessary to validate the GraphQL queries. Each GraphQL query will be validated against the given GraphQL schema before generating a Ballerina client remote operation and the corresponding Ballerina record types. You can use the generated Ballerina client to execute queries/mutations on the relevant GraphQL API through the generated remote operations. Based on your necessity, you can generate multiple clients in Ballerina using the given multiple GraphQL documents and GraphQL queries/mutations. You can also generate multiple Ballerina modules for multiple GraphQL projects to work with different GraphQL APIs. 
```

> The GraphQL schema is necessary to validate the GraphQL queries. Each GraphQL query will be validated against the given GraphQL schema to generate a Ballerina client remote operation and the corresponding Ballerina record types. You can use the generated Ballerina client to execute queries/mutations on the relevant GraphQL API through the generated remote operations. Based on your necessity, you can generate multiple clients in Ballerina using the given multiple GraphQL documents and GraphQL queries/mutations. You can also generate multiple Ballerina modules for multiple GraphQL projects to work with different GraphQL APIs. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The GraphQL schema is necessary to validate the GraphQL queries. Each GraphQL query will be validated against the given GraphQL schema to generate a Ballerina client remote operation and the corresponding Ballerina record types. You can use the generated Ballerina client to execute queries/mutations on the relevant GraphQL API through the generated remote operations. Based on your necessity, you can generate multiple clients in Ballerina using the given multiple GraphQL documents and GraphQL queries/mutations. You can also generate multiple Ballerina modules per GraphQL API endpoint if needed. 
```

3. Generate multiple Ballerina modules from a given GraphQL config file configured with multiple GraphQL projects. Each project will generate a separate Ballerina module. This enables you to work with multiple GraphQL APIs by configuring each GraphQL API under a separate project.

> >**Note:** [GraphQL Foundation VSCode plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GraphQL.vscode-graphql) requires a GraphQL config file at root level or in a parent level directory. The Ballerina GraphQL client tool supports only the standard graphql.config.yaml format as input. To find more information, please refer to [GraphQL config](https://www.graphql-config.com/docs/user/user-usage). We recommend adding the GraphQL config file (graphql.config.yaml) in a Ballerina library package root and to execute the GraphQL client tool from the root directory. To find more information, please refer to [create a library package](/learn/publish-packages-to-ballerina-central/#create-a-library-package). This enables you to publish the generated client in a library package to Ballerina central and to reuse the client package in another Ballerina program. For more information, please refer to the [publishing package to Ballerina central](/learn/publish-packages-to-ballerina-central/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Note:** The [GraphQL Foundation VSCode plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GraphQL.vscode-graphql) requires a GraphQL config file at the root level or in a parent level directory. The Ballerina GraphQL client tool supports only the standard `graphql.config.yaml` format as input. For more information, see the [GraphQL config](https://www.graphql-config.com/docs/user/user-usage). It is recommended to add the GraphQL config file (`graphql.config.yaml`) in a Ballerina library package root and to execute the GraphQL client tool from the root directory. For more information, see [Create a library package](/learn/publish-packages-to-ballerina-central/#create-a-library-package). This enables you to publish the generated client in a library package to Ballerina central and to reuse the client package in another Ballerina program. For more information, see [publishing package to Ballerina central](/learn/publish-packages-to-ballerina-central/).
```

## Generate a client from a GraphQL config

The example below demonstrates how to generate a Ballerina client from a GraphQL config file configured with a GraphQL schema (SDL) and GraphQL document.

> Create the following folders in a root directory and add the GraphQL schema (SDL) and GraphQL document to each folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the directories below in a root directory and add the GraphQL schema (SDL) and GraphQL document to each of them.
```

> - `schemas` folder to add your GraphQL schema (For example `country.graphql`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `schemas` folder to add your GraphQL schema (For example, `country.graphql`).
```

> - `queries` folder to add your GraphQL document (For example `query-country.graphql`). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `queries` folder to add your GraphQL document (For example, `query-country.graphql`). 
```

> For example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are those example files.
```

> For example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the `query-country.graphql` file will have the content below.
```

> country.graphql 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`country.graphql`
```

> country.graphql 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
country.graphql 
```
We can remove this file.

```graphql
## Please add the GraphQL schema (SDL) of the relevant GraphQL API.
```

> query-country.graphql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`query-country.graphql`
```

```graphql
## Add the queries and mutations here.

query countryByCode($code: ID!) {
    country(code: $code) {
        name
    }
}
```

> Create a GraphQL config file (`graphql.config.yaml`) with the configuration below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a GraphQL config file (`graphql.config.yaml`) with the configurations below.
```

```yml
schema: <File path to the GraphQL schema or the web URL of the GraphQL schema>
documents:
   - <File path to the GraphQL document with the GraphQL queries & mutations>
```

For example,

```yml

> ## The GraphQL schema. Ex: https://countries.trevorblades.com or ./schemas/country.graphql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The GraphQL schema. E.g., `https://countries.trevorblades.com` or `./schemas/country.graphql`
```

2. `utils.bal` - util file for the relevant `utils` methods related to the client stub
3. `types.bal`- schema file for the configured GraphQL schema

> For the example above, it would generate the following client file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the example above, it would generate the client file below.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/http;
import ballerina/graphql;

public isolated client class QuerycountryClient {
    final graphql:Client graphqlClient;
    public isolated function init(string serviceUrl, http:ClientConfiguration clientConfig = {}) returns graphql:ClientError? {
        graphql:Client clientEp = check new (serviceUrl, clientConfig);
        self.graphqlClient = clientEp;
        return;
    }
    remote isolated function countryByCode(string code) returns CountryByCodeResponse|graphql:ClientError {
        string query = string `query countryByCode($code:ID!) {country(code:$code) {name}}`;
        map<anydata> variables = {"code": code};
        json graphqlResponse = check self.graphqlClient->executeWithType(query, variables);
        return <CountryByCodeResponse> check performDataBinding(graphqlResponse, CountryByCodeResponse);
    }
}
```

> We recommend copying the generated files into the root of a Ballerina package library, so that you can publish the client package to Ballerina central and reuse the client package in another Ballerina program. For more information, please refer to the [publishing package to Ballerina central](/learn/publish-packages-to-ballerina-central/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to copy the generated files into the root of a Ballerina package library so that you can publish the client package to Ballerina Central and reuse the client package in another Ballerina program. For more information, see [Publish packages to Ballerina Central](/learn/publish-packages-to-ballerina-central/).
```

> The following example shows the usage of the generated client in a Ballerina program. Assume that the org name is `user` and the package name is `country` of the published package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below shows the usage of the generated client in a Ballerina program. Assume that the org name is `user` and the package name is `country` of the published package.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```ballerina
```

import ballerina/io;
import user/country;

public function main() returns error? {
    country:QuerycountryClient countryClient = check new ("https://countries.trevorblades.com/");
    country:CountryByCodeResponse response = check countryClient->countryByCode("LK");
    io:println(response.country?.name);
}
```

> You can also use the generated client within the same Ballerina project by generating it within a separate module. For more information, please refer to [generating multiple modules from a GraphQL config](/learn/graphql-client-tool/#generate-multiple-modules-from-a-graphql-config).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use the generated client within the same Ballerina project by generating it within a separate module. For more information, see [Generate multiple modules from a GraphQL config](/learn/graphql-client-tool/#generate-multiple-modules-from-a-graphql-config).
```

> The example below demonstrates how to generate multiple Ballerina clients from a GraphQL config file configured with a GraphQL schema (SDL) and multiple GraphQL documents.

Reviewer 4: AFAIR, We decided not to include multi-client case. @hevayo Please confirm

Author: Had a discussion with @shafreenAnfar and included this section under `Advanced use cases`.

   - <Add more documents based on your requirement …>
```

If you want to generate multiple Ballerina clients for a given set of GraphQL documents, use the command below.

```bash
bal graphql [-i | --input] <graphql-configuration-file-path> [-o | --output] <output-location> 
```

> This will generate a separate Ballerina client for each GraphQL document with remote operations corresponding to each GraphQL query/mutation in the GraphQL document (`.graphql document`). The generated sources will be written into the same directory from which the command is executed (i.e., the Ballerina package root directory). For example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This generates a separate Ballerina client for each GraphQL document with remote operations corresponding to each GraphQL query/mutation in the GraphQL document (`.graphql document`). The generated sources will be written into the same directory from which the command is executed (i.e., the Ballerina package root directory). For example,
```

```bash
bal graphql -i graphql.config.yaml
```

> This will generate the Ballerina sources (i.e., the Ballerina files below) from the given GraphQL config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This generates the Ballerina sources (i.e., the Ballerina files below) from the given GraphQL config.
```

> 1. `<document_name>_client.bal` - contains the Ballerina client corresponding to each GraphQL document (Each GraphQL document will generate a separate Ballerina client file.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `<document_name>_client.bal` - contains the Ballerina client corresponding to each GraphQL document (each GraphQL document will generate a separate Ballerina client file.)
```

2. `utils.bal` - contains all the utility methods related to the client stub
3. `types.bal`- contains all the Ballerina data types extracted from the GraphQL schema (SDL)

The generated clients can be used to execute the queries/mutations on the GraphQL API. You can use the generated clients within a Ballerina program in the same Ballerina package.

You can also use the `graphql` CLI command to generate a Ballerina module. For more information, see [Generate multiple modules from a GraphQL config](/learn/graphql-client-tool/#generate-multiple-modules-from-a-graphql-config).

### Generate multiple modules from a GraphQL config

> The steps below demonstrates how to generate multiple Ballerina modules from a GraphQL config file configured with multiple GraphQL projects using the `graphql` CLI tool. Each project will generate a separate Ballerina module. This enables you to work with multiple GraphQL APIs by configuring each GraphQL API endpoint under a separate project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps below to generate multiple Ballerina modules from a GraphQL config file configured with multiple GraphQL projects using the `graphql` CLI tool. Each project will generate a separate Ballerina module. This enables you to work with multiple GraphQL APIs by configuring each GraphQL API endpoint under a separate project.
```

> Create a Ballerina package. For more information, see [Package commands](/learn/cli-documentation/cli-commands/#package-commands).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a Ballerina package. For more information, see [Package commands](/learn/cli-documentation/cli-commands/#package-commands).
```
These can be numbered steps.

> Create a GraphQL config file (`graphql.config.yaml`) in the Ballerina package root directory with the configurations below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a GraphQL config file (`graphql.config.yaml`) in the Ballerina package root directory with the configurations below.
```

2. `utils.bal` - util file for the relevant utils methods related to the client stubs
3. `types.bal` - schema file for the configured GraphQL schema 

> We recommend copying the generated files into the root of a Ballerina package library, so that you can publish the client package to Ballerina central and reuse the client package in another Ballerina program. For more information, please refer to the [publishing package to Ballerina central](/learn/publish-packages-to-ballerina-central/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to copy the generated files to the root of a Ballerina package library so that you can publish the client package to Ballerina Central and reuse the client package in another Ballerina program. For more information, see [Publish packages to Ballerina Central](/learn/publish-packages-to-ballerina-central/).
```

> You can also use the generated client within the same Ballerina project by generating it within a separate module. For more information, please refer to [generating multiple modules from a GraphQL config](/learn/graphql-client-tool/#generate-multiple-modules-from-a-graphql-config).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use the generated client within the same Ballerina project by generating it within a separate module. For more information, see [Generate multiple modules from a GraphQL config](/learn/graphql-client-tool/#generate-multiple-modules-from-a-graphql-config).
```

## Generate multiple modules from a GraphQL config

The example below demonstrates how to generate multiple Ballerina modules from a GraphQL config file configured with multiple GraphQL projects.

> Create a GraphQL config file (`graphql.config.yaml`) with the following configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a GraphQL config file (`graphql.config.yaml`) with the configuration below.
```

         - <Add more documents based on your requirement …>
```

> This enables you to work with multiple GraphQL APIs. Each GraphQL API should be defined under a separate project in the GraphQL config file. The clients generated under a separate Ballerina module related to each project from the GraphQL config file can be used in your applications to execute the queries/mutations in each GraphQL document against the GraphQL API corresponding to the GraphQL schema defined under each project in the GraphQL config file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This enables you to work with multiple GraphQL APIs. Each GraphQL API should be defined under a separate project in the GraphQL config file. The clients generated under a separate Ballerina module related to each project from the GraphQL config file can be used in your applications to execute the queries/mutations in each GraphQL document against the GraphQL API corresponding to the GraphQL schema defined under each project in the GraphQL config file.
```
Consider breaking this into multiple short sentences.

         - <Add more documents based on your requirement …>
```

If you want to generate multiple Ballerina modules for a given set of GraphQL projects, use the command below.

```bash
bal graphql [-i | --input] <graphql-configuration-file-path> [-o | --output] <output-location> 
```

> This will generate a separate Ballerina module for each GraphQL project. The generated sources will be written into individual modules in the Ballerina package. For example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This generates a separate Ballerina module for each GraphQL project. The generated sources will be written into individual modules in the Ballerina package. For example,
```

```bash
bal graphql -i graphql.config.yaml
```

> This will generate a separate Ballerina module (with the project name configured) for each GraphQL project in the GraphQL config. This will also generate the Ballerina sources (i.e., the Ballerina files below) inside each module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This generates a separate Ballerina module (with the project name configured) for each GraphQL project in the GraphQL config. This also generates the Ballerina sources (i.e., the Ballerina files below) inside each module.
```

> 1. `<document_name>_client.bal` - contains the Ballerina client corresponding to each GraphQL document (Each GraphQL document will generate a separate Ballerina client file.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `<document_name>_client.bal` - contains the Ballerina client corresponding to each GraphQL document (each GraphQL document will generate a separate Ballerina client file.)
```

2. `utils.bal` - contains all the utility methods related to the client stub
3. `types.bal`- contains all the Ballerina data types extracted from the GraphQL schema (SDL)

> The generated modules can be used to work with multiple GraphQL APIs. The generated client within each module can be used to execute the queries/mutations on the relevant GraphQL API. You can use the generated clients within the same Ballerina package by importing the generated modules. For more information, see [Import a module from the same package](/learn/organize-ballerina-code/#import-a-module-from-the-same-package).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the generated modules to work with multiple GraphQL APIs. Use the client that is generated within each module to execute the queries/mutations on the relevant GraphQL API. Also, use the clients that are generated **within** the same Ballerina package by importing the generated modules. For more information, see [Import a module from the same package](/learn/organize-ballerina-code/#import-a-module-from-the-same-package).
```

2. `<document_name>_client.bal` - each project will generate a Ballerina client stub corresponding to each GraphQL document configured under the relevant GraphQL project
3. `utils.bal` - util file for the relevant `utils` methods related to the client stubs
4. `types.bal` - schema file for the configured GraphQL schema under the relevant GraphQL project

> We recommend copying the generated modules into the root of a Ballerina package library, so that you can publish the client package to Ballerina central and reuse the client package with multiple modules in another Ballerina program. For more information, please refer to the [publishing package to Ballerina central](/learn/publish-packages-to-ballerina-central/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to copy the generated modules to the root of a Ballerina package library so that you can publish the client package to Ballerina Central and reuse the client package with multiple modules in another Ballerina program. For more information, see [Publish packages to Ballerina Central](/learn/publish-packages-to-ballerina-central/).
```

> You can also use the generated clients within the same Ballerina package by importing the generated modules. For more information, please refer to [importing a module from the same package](/learn/organize-ballerina-code/#import-a-module-from-the-same-package).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use the generated clients within the same Ballerina package by importing the generated modules. For more information, see [Import a module from the same package](/learn/organize-ballerina-code/#import-a-module-from-the-same-package).
```
